Add tips on setting up shell prompt (#56)
populationgenomics/team-docs: terminal.md

# Terminal

> Tip on setting up your terminal and shell.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tips on setting up your terminal and shell.
```

- [Shell prompt](#shell-prompt)

## Shell prompt

> When working with tools like conda, git, gcloud, hail, you might need to frequently

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When working with tools like conda, git, gcloud, and Hail, you might need to frequently
```

switch between conda environments, git branches, Google Cloud projects, and Hail namespaces.
It's helpful to have them always displayed in your prompt. The following will work for
bash and [zsh](https://ohmyz.sh) shells, and might be adapted for other shells
as well. Add this into your `.zshrc`, `.bashrc` or analogous:

```sh
git_rev() {
  # Returns current HEAD: either branch, or commit hash if detached.
  if [ ! -d .git ]; then echo ""; fi
  BRANCH=$(git branch --show-current)
  if [ -z $BRANCH ]
    then REV=$(git rev-parse --short HEAD)
    else REV=$BRANCH
  fi
  echo "$REV"
}

gcp_project() {
  # Returns current project, set with `gcloud config set project`.
  # Note: calling `gcloud config get-value project` is very slow, so parsing a file.
  PROJECT=$(grep project ~/.config/gcloud/configurations/config_default | sed 's/project = //')
  echo "$PROJECT"

> }
> conda_env() {
>   # Returns current activated conda environment, assuming it's activated
>   # with `conda activate`. For deactivated state, returns "base" or empty string.
>   echo "$CONDA_DEFAULT_ENV"
> }
> hail_namespace() {
>   # Returns current hail namespace set with `hailctl dev config set default_namespace`.
>   echo "$(cat ~/.hail/deploy-config.json | jq -r ".default_namespace")"
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
}

conda_env() {
  # Returns current activated conda environment, assuming it's activated
  # with `conda activate`. For deactivated state, returns "base" or empty string.
  echo "$CONDA_DEFAULT_ENV"
}

hail_namespace() {
  # Returns current hail namespace set with `hailctl dev config set default_namespace`.
  echo "$(cat ~/.hail/deploy-config.json | jq -r ".default_namespace")"
}

```

_statuses() {
  echo "$(hail_namespace)·$(git_rev)·$(gcp_project)·$(conda_env)"
}

# For zsh:
PROMPT='%~%  $(_statuses) $ '  # %~% resolves to the home directory starting with ~. To show the absolute path, use %/%
# For bash:
PS1='\w  $(_statuses) $ '
```

You can add some colors:

```sh
PROMPT='%{$fg[cyan]%}%~%  %{$fg[yellow]%}$(_statuses)%{$reset_color%} $ '
PS1='\[\033[00;36m\]\w\[\033[00m\] \[\033[00;33m\]$(_statuses)\[\033[00m\] $ '
```

> For more details on bash colors, [there are helpful articles](https://www.howtogeek.com/307701/how-to-customize-and-colorize-your-bash-prompt).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details on bash colors, see [this helpful article](https://www.howtogeek.com/307701/how-to-customize-and-colorize-your-bash-prompt).
```

It can be also useful to use color code to show the last command return value. In zsh, it can be done with:

```sh
PROMPT='%{$fg[cyan]%}%~%  %{$fg[yellow]%}$(_statuses)%{$reset_color%} %(?.%{$fg[green]%}.%{$fg[red]%})%B$%b '
```

Also, if you are using the a zsh [git-prompt plugin](https://github.com/ohmyzsh/ohmyzsh/tree/master/plugins/git-prompt),

> you can call `$(git_super_status)` instead `$(git_rev)`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you can call `$(git_super_status)` instead of `$(git_rev)`:
```
